Welcome back javascript was created in 1995 five but the Netscape web browser right over here it was
a way for them to be able to add actions to Web sites.
Think of JavaScript as the verb in anything you do on a Web site.
You tweet.
You play a YouTube video.
You sign up for a user name.
These are all actions we take on Web sites made possible through javascript.
In 1995 it was a way for this browser Netscape to beat the competition which were other browsers at
the time because at the time Netscape was the most popular.
Other browsers started adopting their own version of JavaScript so that Web sites will work on their
browsers as well and thus less people switch over to their browsers.
Can you guess what happened next.
Well every browser had their own idea of what javascript was.
So there was no standard.
Eventually a standard had to be created to make sure that everyone had the same idea of what javascript
was so that web developers can build one Web site and have it work on all browsers.
This standard was called Acme script.
So yes javascript and my script can be used interchangeably and you will hear both of these a lot but
it's the same language.
Now this browser compatibility issue browsers having their own teams their own schedule and their own
code.
Sound familiar.
Yep if you remember it's the same thing that happened with HCM Mel and CSX.
It's the same issue that we keep having over and over.
We cover this topic in web developer fundamental part two.
You see it's always a big problem.
Make sure that all browsers have the same understanding of what our real a shemale see CSX and JavaScript
should be so that when we send each one of those files we don't have to write one specific for each
browser and just like AC million CSX javascript is evolving.
So there are new things that we can do now that you weren't able to do in 1995 with JavaScript in the
E6 video section later on in the course.
We will talk about these new features.
So don't worry.
Now let's take a look at what javascript does.
We can open up the browser and I have you Demi over here.
Well you Demi uses a lot of Javascript.
I mean clicking on a course adding it to cart liking a post all these things.
Well they're all javascript.
Even if you open categories over here you see this dropdown and I can select things and there's actions
constantly happening throughout the Web site.
That's all javascript but it's not just the Web they can use javascript on Instagram.
Well Instagram uses javascript.
What about something else.
Maybe virtual reality.
Yeah you can do that too.
You can do VR VR games VR apps with JavaScript.
That's that's pretty cool what else can javascript do.
Well you can actually program drones with JavaScript and control them from your wee remote.
If you wanted to what about robotics.
Yeah.
This guy built a robot so he can control from his web browser.
How cool is that.
Now remember no J.S. we talked about this slide at the beginning of the course and how we're going to
learn these topics.
Well some of this is able to be done because of it but no G S is pretty much javascript it is javascript.
So you learn Javascript you can pick up back and stuff very easily and then know j a section of this
course will be a breeze.
It's not a new language.
You'll learn so as express so is react.
So this is why javascript is so important.
What we will learn here will take you very far in the rest of your career.
This is one skill that really opens up a lot of possibilities here's the beauty of JavaScript though
and any other programming languages because what is javascript really it's it's a file a file that you
can write instructions to a computer.
In the example of a robot arm all you had to do is write if I press this button move arm to the right.
If I press this button move arm to the left it all looks extremely complicated.
But as you will see no matter how complex a program let's say an online game like World of Warcraft.
Well everything is built one block at a time.
One simple logic at a time in the next section we're going to start writing our first JavaScript in
our first simple pieces of logic.
Don't let a fool you though although it may look simple.
These are the building blocks that allow you to build big web apps like Facebook or Google exciting
things are going to happen with your new found power.
So I'll see you in the next one by.